. The remaining two bonds of the α -carbon atom are generally satisfied by a hydrogen (H) atom and the R group [1–6, 9]. The key elements of an amino acid are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), and nitrogen (N), although other elements are found within the side chains of certain amino acids [9]. About 500 present amino acids are known (though only 20 a ppear within the genetic code) and may be classified in some ways [ 10]. They will be classified in step with the core structural-functional groups' locations as alpha- (α-), beta- (β-), gamma- (γ-) or delta- (δ-) amino acids [9]. PROPERTIES OF AMINO ACIDS [4, 11, 12] Physical Properties of Amino Acids Solubility Most of the amino acids are usually soluble in water and insoluble in organic solvents. *Author for Correspondence Chandani Kamble E-mail: chandanikamble2597@gmail.com 1Student, Department of Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance, Ashokrao Mane College of Pharmacy, Pethvadgaon , Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India 2Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Pharmacy, Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India 3Student, Department of Pharmacy, Adarsh Pharmacy College, Vita, Maharashtra, India Received Date: September 17, 2021 Accepted Date: October 21, 2021 Published Date: November 10, 2021 Citation: Chandani Kamble, Rohankumar Chavan, Vikas Kamble. A Review on Amino Acids . Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery. 2021; 8(3): 19–27p. A Review on Amino Acids Kamble et al. Melting Point Amino acids are generally melted at a higher temperature often above 2000 C. Taste Amino acids are also sweet (Glycine, Alanine and Valine), tasteless (Leucine) or Bitter (Arginine & Isoleucine). Optical Properties Optical Properties: All amino acids except glycine possess optical isomers because of the presence of asymmetric α-carbon atoms and show optical activity. Zwitterion and Isoelectric Point Zwitterion and Isoelectric point: The name zwitter is derived from the German word which implies hybrid. Zwitter ion (or) dipolar ion is a hybrid molecule containing positive & negatively ionic groups. The proton shifts from the carboxyl group to the amino group of the self -molecule at normal pH cellular levels. Titration Curve of Glycine Glycine is optically inactive, the simplest amino acid because which don't have an asymmetric carbon atom. Acid-Base titration involves the gradual addition (or) removal of protons. It’s three different stages when the Glycine undergoes acid-base titration