. Methionine Methionine is used to prevent and cure a variety of ailments, including depression, inflammation, liver illness, and muscle discomfort. Iodogorgic acid Diiodothyronine is a horm one. It's a type of medicine. Diiodothyronine is used to help people reduce weight, lower cholesterol, and develop muscle. Thyroxine Thyroid underactivity is treated with levothyroxine (hypothyroidism). It replaces or increases the amount of thyroid hormone generated by the thyroid gland. Tryptophan Tryptophan has been used to treat anxiety and depression in the past. It is used to treat migraines, headaches, and to boost the production of growth hormones. Proline One of the most important reasons to use L-proline supplements is to improve joint and skin health. It could also help with muscle development and injury healing. Hydroxyproline Hydroxyproline is required for the formation of collagen, the body's principal structural protein. Aspartic acid It's occasionally used to treat stress and exhaustion. It aids in the generation of energy from carbohydrates as well as the manufacturing of RNA and DNA. Asparagine It is necessary for brain development and function. Glutamic acid Glutamic acid serves as a source of energy for the brain. It improves brain clarity, mental alertness, and mood. As a result, it's utilizedto treat Parkinson's, Fatigue, and Schizophrenia. Beta-hydroxy glutamic acid It is used to treat acne, photoaging, dry skin, psoriasis, an d melasma, among other dermatological diseases. They've also been studied for fibromyalgia, dental scaling, and dry mouth, as well as the prevention and treatment of urinary tract stones. Glutamine It's used to keep blood sugar levels under control and consistent. Ornithine L-ornithine is primarily used in health supplements to support sports and performance. It's also utilized to help with liver function and wound healing. Arginine Because of its antiatherogenic, anti -ischemic, antiplatelet, and antithr ombotic effects, L-arginine is a non-essential amino acid that may play an important role in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. A Review on Amino Acids Kamble et al. Lysine Lysine appears to minimize cold sores when taken orally and when applied to the skin as a cream. Histidine Hemoglobin has a high percentage of histidine. As a result, it is used to treat anemia. It can reduce blood pressure. In baby feeding, histidine is critical