. Basic Amino Acids The three amino acids lysine, arginine (with guanidino group) a nd histidine (with imidazole ring) are dibasic monocarboxylic acids. They are highly basic in character. Aromatic Amino Acids Aromatic amino acids include phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan (which have an indole ring). Apart from them, histidine may also fall under this category. Imino Acids An unusual amino acid is a proline, which has a Pyrrolidine ring. Instead of the amino group (-NH2) found in other amino acids, it possesses an Imino group (=NH). As a result, proline is a -amino acid. Heterocyclic Amino Acids Histidine, Tryptophan, and Proline. Classification Based on the Position of -NH2 Amino acids can be classified into three types: 1. α-amino acid: The amino group attached to the next carbon of the carboxyl group is called α - amino acid. All naturally occurring amino acids are in α-L-amino acids. 2. Beta -amino acid : β-amino acid refers to the amino group attached to the third carbon (numbering from the Carboxyl group) of amino acid. For example, one of the end products of Pyrimidine catabolism is -alanine. 3. γ-amino acid: γ -amino acid refers to the amino group connected to the amino acids fourth carbon (numbering from the Carboxyl group). e.g. GABA (Gamma Amino Butyric Acid). Classification Based On the Nutritional Requirement Based on Nutritional requirements, amino acids can be divided into three types. 1. Essential Amino acids (EAA) 2. Non-Essential Amino acids (NEAA) 3. Semi-Essential Amino acids (SEAA) Essential Amino acids (EAA) In the human body, some amino acids are not synthesized. It should be obtained from food. They are essential for the individual's appropriate development and maintenance [14]. e.g.: MATT VIL PHLy (Or) PVT TIM HALL M=Methionine A=Arginine T=Threonine T=Tryptophan V=Valine I=Isoleucine L=Leucine P=Phenylalanine H=Histidine L=Lysine Non-Essential Amino acids (NEAA) To meet biological demands, the body can synthesis roughly 10 amino acids, thus they do not need to be eaten in the food. e.g.: Glycine, Alanine, Serine, Cysteine, Aspargine, Aspartic acid, Glutamic acid, Glutamine, Tyrosine, and Proline. Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery Semi-Essential Amino acid: The amino acids histidine and arginine are semi -essential. They are required in the diet of growing children. However, they are not required for mature individuals