From Fragmentation to Cohesion: An LLM-Based
Iterative Approach to Ontology and Knowledge
Graph Refinement
Alexandru Popa
Department of Computer Science
University of Bucharest
National Institute for Research and Development
Bucharest, Romania
alexandru.popa@fmi.unibuc.ro
Tiberiu-Iulian Sˆırbu
Department of Computer Science
University of Bucharest
Bucharest, Romania
sirbu.tiberiu.iulian@gmail.com
Abstract—Knowledge graphs and their respective ontologies
often suffer from disconnected subgraphs, redundant classes, and
inconsistent relationships when automatically generated from un-
structured data. While recent studies involving Large Language
Models (LLMs) are capable of generating knowledge graphs, they
lack the capability to offer a well-connected and stable graph. In
this paper, a new pipeline is proposed that repeatedly refines
the ontology by identifying disconnected components of the
knowledge graph and employs the LLM to find the connections
between the largest connected component and all the smaller
disconnected ones. Moreover, the pipeline discussed in this study
aims to offer a stable ontology at the end that will create a
consistent graph each time is used as input in a LLM based
knowledge graph construction.
Index Terms —Knowledge Graphs, Large Language Models,
Graph Connectivity Analysis, Automated Ontology Generation.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs)
offer the opportunity of using this type of technology to obtain
answers from a vast amount of data. The most common way
of achieving answers from data used nowadays is known as
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) [11]. This method
takes a number of documents and splits them into contexts
before transforming each context into embeddings and storing
them in vector stores. Each time a user asks a question, it will
use the query’s embeddings to perform a semantic similarity
and extract the closest context to the actual query.
Although RAG effectively extracts textual information from
documents, it lacks the ability to capture contextual relation-
ships between entities. Knowledge Graphs (KGs) address this
limitation by explicitly connecting entities, even those not
directly stated in the text. Constructing KGs requires advanced
knowledge of data and an ontology rules consisting of classes
and properties guiding entity extraction and relationship iden-
tification by the LLM.
KGs underpin GraphRAG, a novel method designed to
overcome traditional RAG limitations by better interpreting
complex semantic relationships. While recent research has sig-
nificantly increased interest in GraphRAG [2], [4], [10], [16],
this study specifically focuses on improving the quality and
coherence of KG construction, rather than directly enhancing
KG-based retrieval mechanisms.
A. Related Work
Traditional KG building pipelines frequently yield dis-
connected subgraphs, largely due to incomplete ontology or
conflicting domain knowledge. In parallel, LLMs have recently
demonstrated significant capabilities in extracting, aligning,
and validating knowledge by taking advantage of the extensive
semantic context encoded within their parameters [12]. How-
ever, LLM-based KG construction has far often focused on
partial challenges such as zero-shot triple extraction [3], on-
tology alignment [13], or canonicalization steps [15], without
providing an end-to-end mechanism to iteratively consolidate
disconnected components into a single coherent graph.
Over the past two to three years, researchers have integrated
LLMs into various portions of the KG lifecycle. Such an
example is iText2KG, which incrementally builds a KG from
text to reduce the need for post hoc merging [9]. Graphusion is
another framework, which fuses partial subgraphs via a global
“fusion” prompt, boosting overall connectivity [14]. Mean-
while, studies highlighting how class membership relations in
KGs can be evaluated against LLM-sourced definitions, uncov-
ers subtle errors in large knowledge repositories [1]. Similar
researches show that open-world hierarchical knowledge from
LLMs can improve link prediction [6], or that LLM can be
used as a “graph judge” which repeatedly checks extracted
facts for internal consistency [5].
B. Original Contribution
Despite other pipelines for ontology creation with LLM
exists [8], a comprehensive pipeline that explicitly identifies
disconnected subgraphs, prioritizes their integration (ordering
nodes by degree), and iteratively revises the ontology until
the entire graph converges has been largely absent. Moreover,
there is limited discussion on using graph similarity across
repeated instantiations, an approach that can help detect resid-
ual inconsistencies and imply whether the ontology is stable
enough for deployment. The present article aims to fill these
gaps by proposing a novel multi-stage algorithm that:
1) Generates an initial ontology from the source documents
using an LLM.
2) Builds a KG, identifying all connected components.
3) Systematically merges smaller disconnected subgraphs
into the largest component by prompting the LLM to
suggest to refine classes or relations.
4) Repeats ontology refinement until changes drop below
a defined threshold.
5) Rebuilds the KG twice with the final ontology and
measures graph similarity to verify stability.
By adopting this iterative, connectivity-driven perspective,
this method aims to offer a clear stopping criterion when the
ontology demonstrates consistent, reproducible connectivity.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section II
describes the theoretical considerations used and defined the
pipeline for ontology creation. Before concluding the current
study in Section IV, the Section III aims to showcase the
effectiveness of the proposed pipeline with results from an
experiment conducted on a document linked to chemistry
domain.
II. T HEORETICAL CONSIDERATIONS
In this section, the theoretical foundations are outlined along
with the assumptions underlying the proposed pipeline for it-
erative ontology construction and KG refinement using LLMs.
The present approach systematically addresses two critical
challenges in automated knowledge graph creation from text:
semantic coherence (ensuring accurate concept relations) and
structural coherence (ensuring a fully connected graph).
In tackling the semantic convergence, the assumption is that
iterative prompting of an LLM will produce progressively
refined ontology definitions. Over iterations, the ontology
changes become progressively smaller, eventually converg-
ing towards a stable semantic representation. By prioritizing
connections between nodes based on their degree within
graph components, the pipeline aims to rapidly increase the
connectivity of the KG. Nodes with higher degrees are more
semantically central, making them effective anchors for in-
tegration. The iterative nature ensures the largest component
acts as the primary reference, progressively absorbing smaller
disconnected subgraphs.
After ontology refinement converges, reconstructing the KG
multiple times with the same ontology provides a measure
of the ontology’s stability. High similarity between these re-
peated graphs indicates that the ontology reliably captures the
domain’s semantic structure, while lower similarity suggests
ongoing instability or ambiguity. A Jaccard-like measure is
employed on the set of edges. This choice reflects a combina-
torial perspective: two KGs are considered the “same” if they
share most of their edges. In network science, other measures
(e.g., graph edit distance, subgraph isomorphism tests) could
Algorithm 1 Iterative Ontology & KG Refinement Pipeline
1: Input: Documents D, similarity threshold τ, convergence
threshold ϵ
2: Output: Final Ontology Ofinal, Final KG Gfinal
3: Generate initial ontology O from documents D via LLM
4: Extract RDF triples from documents D based on ontology
O
5: Construct initial KG G from extracted triples
6: repeat
7: Identify connected components in KG G
8: Assign largest connected component as main graph
Cmain
9: Mark smaller components as Csmall
10: for each component Cj in Csmall do
11: Sort nodes in Cj by descending node degree
12: Sort nodes in Cmain by descending node degree
13: Use LLM to find semantic relationships between top-
degree nodes of Cj and Cmain
14: if LLM suggests valid connection then
15: Update ontology O accordingly
16: end if
17: end for
18: Rebuild KG G using updated ontology O
19: Measure ontology changes ∆O
20: until ∆O < ϵ
21: Construct graphs GA and GB independently from final
ontology O
22: Compute similarity sim(GA, GB)
23: if sim(GA, GB) < τ then
24: Repeat ontology refinement (go to Step 6)
25: end if
26: return Ofinal, Gfinal
apply, but Jaccard distance is used in this study to balance
simplicity with descriptive power.
The complete pipeline depicted in Algorithm 1 provides a
structured theoretical foundation for automated ontology and
KG refinement. It integrates graph theory principles (con-
nectivity, node degree) and LLM-driven semantic inference
(relationship identification, ontology update proposals) into a
practical iterative framework.
The algorithm starts by generating an initial ontology from
input documents using an LLM. This ontology is then used
to extract Resource Description Framework (RDF) triples and
construct the initial knowledge graph.
The core of the algorithm is an iterative loop that identifies
disconnected components in the KG. The largest component
is treated as the main graph, while the smaller components
are processed to find potential semantic links. Nodes from
both the smaller and main components are sorted by degree,
and the LLM is prompted to find valid relationships between
them. When a connection is identified, the ontology is updated
accordingly.
This refinement cycle continues until changes to the ontol-
ogy become negligible. Once the final ontology is stable, two
separate KGs are constructed from it, and their similarity is
measured. If the graphs are sufficiently similar, the final on-
tology and KG are returned; otherwise, refinement continues.
The pipeline outputs an ontology that not only accurately re-
flects the domain knowledge contained in the input documents
but also reliably generates a stable, well-connected knowledge
graph.
III. E XPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
In this section, the experimental results of the iterative
ontology refinement pipeline and knowledge graph creation are
presented. For experiments a structured, domain-specific input
article was chosen [7]. This article was selected due to its clear
domain specific terminology, hierarchical relationships, and
structured content, making it an ideal candidate for knowledge
extraction and ontology refinement.
RDF triples serve as the fundamental building blocks for
semantic data representation. Each RDF triple consists of three
components: a subject, predicate, and object, which together
define relationships between entities clearly and explicitly. In
the current study, RDF triples were used to capture semantic
relationships extracted from the input document.
The pipeline implementation used several key technologies
and libraries. The OpenAI API provided a connection to
an LLM, specifically employing the GPT-4O mini model.
This model was chosen for its state-of-the-art generative
capabilities, enabling accurate identification and extraction
of domain-specific concepts and relationships directly from
the text. Furthermore, we utilized PyVis, a Python library
specialized in interactive network visualization, to clearly
represent and analyze the structure of the resulting RDF
graphs. Additionally, NetworkX, a powerful graph analysis
library, was used for computing graph connectivity, identifying
connected components, and sorting nodes by their degree, thus
guiding the iterative refinement process.
To effectively manage the input article text, a text chunking
technique was applied. The original document was split into
smaller, overlapping chunks, facilitating manageable inputs for
the GPT-4O mini model. Given the nature of pricing when
using an LLM, all iterative pipeline creation as the one defined
in present article, may be expensive, as the price increases with
the number of documents and number of iterations used.
The threshold for ontology change was set to 0.1, while
the threshold for final graph similarity was set to 0.7. Fig-
ure 1 depicts the initial knowledge graph generated using
the ontology directly produced by GPT-4O mini from the
input document. The graph clearly illustrates a disconnected
structure, with multiple smaller components isolated from the
central, larger subgraph. This fragmentation indicates gaps
or missing semantic connections within the initial ontology,
limiting the utility and completeness of the KG.
Through the iterative process of identification of high degree
nodes, connectivity checks, and further semantic interrogation
via LLM, the ontology was progressively updated to incor-
porate previously missing relationships. The iterative nature
of this refinement allowed the model to propose meaningful
connections between the disconnected subgraphs and the main
connected component, effectively enhancing both the semantic
accuracy and connectivity of the ontology.
The effectiveness of our iterative pipeline is clearly demon-
strated in Figure 2, which shows the final refined KG after
multiple refinement cycles. This graph is characterized by a
unified, coherent structure with a single dominant connected
component. All previously isolated subgraphs are now fully
integrated, showcasing significantly improved semantic con-
nectivity and completeness.
Additionally, Table I presents a comparative analysis of the
initial and final knowledge graphs generated before and after
the ontology refinement process. The metrics clearly reflect
the structural improvements brought by our iterative pipeline.
First, a reduction in the total number of nodes is observed,
from 68 to 55. This decrease suggests that the refinement
process effectively resolved redundancies and merged seman-
tically equivalent entities. Conversely, the number of edges
increased from 64 to 67, indicating that the refined ontology
facilitated the discovery of additional relationships between
entities. This improvement in edge density also contributes to
greater graph connectivity and coherence.
A critical result is the reduction in the number of connected
components from 5 in the initial KG to just 1 in the final
version. This demonstrates that the pipeline successfully inte-
grated previously isolated subgraphs into a unified, semanti-
cally connected structure. The size of the largest component
grew from 38 nodes to encompass the entire graph (55 nodes),
while the concept of a “smallest component” no longer applies
in the refined graph, since it has become a single connected
component.
Furthermore, the average node degree increased signifi-
cantly from 1.88 to 2.44. This increase illustrates that, on
average, each entity in the final KG is linked to more re-
lated concepts, contributing to better semantic richness and
improved context availability for downstream tasks such as
question answering or inference.
Finally, the RDF triple count closely mirrors the edge count,
reinforcing that each new semantic link corresponds directly
to enriched information content in the graph.
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF INITIAL AND FINAL KNOWLEDGE GRAPHS
Metric Initial KG Final KG
Total Nodes 68 55
Total Edges 64 67
Number of Connected Components 5 1
Largest Component Size (nodes) 38 55
Smallest Component Size (nodes) 2 55
Average Node Degree 1.88 2.44
RDF Triple Count 64 67
Another important detail is the obtained similarity between
the final graphs created from the final ontology. This similarity
yielded 0.746, while this value may reflect a difference in the
graph creation using the same ontology, further refinement of
prompting with additional rules to guide the LLM in RDF
triples construction, may result in a more stable approach.
Overall, the results demonstrate that iterative ontology re-
finement using advanced language models can substantially
enhance KG connectivity and semantic coherence, providing
robust frameworks suitable for structured domain knowledge
extraction and representation.
Fig. 1. Initial KG
Fig. 2. Final KG
IV. C ONCLUSIONS
In this study, a novel iterative ontology refinement pipeline
was introduced and was designed to improve semantic co-
herence and connectivity of knowledge graphs derived from
structured domain-specific documents. The key contribution of
this paper lies in systematically addressing disconnected com-
ponents within knowledge graphs through repeated ontology
refinements guided by language models. The pipeline employs
RDF triples for precise representation of semantic relation-
ships, enabling explicit and structured knowledge extraction.
This methodology demonstrated its effectiveness through the
transformation from an initially fragmented knowledge graph
to a fully connected, semantically enriched graph. These re-
sults highlight the potential of iterative ontology refinement to
substantially improve knowledge graph quality and reliability,
paving the way for enhanced performance in downstream
applications such as knowledge discovery, semantic search,
and automated reasoning. Future research directions include
exploring pipeline scalability, extending the methodology to
broader domains, improve consistency in graph creation based
on ontology, and integrating automated reasoning capabilities
to further validate the refined ontologies.
REFERENCES
[1] B. P. Allen and P. T. Groth. Evaluating class membership relations in
knowledge graphs using large language models. In European Semantic
Web Conference, pages 14–24. Springer, 2024.
[2] M. Barry, G. Caillaut, P. Halftermeyer, R. Qader, M. Mouayad, D. Car-
iolaro, F. Le Deit, and J. Gesnouin. Graphrag: Leveraging graph-based
efficiency to minimize hallucinations in llm-driven rag for finance data.
In 31st International conference on Computational Linguistics Workshop
Knowledge Graph & GenAI , 2025.
[3] S. Carta, A. Giuliani, L. Piano, A. S. Podda, L. Pompianu, and
S. G. Tiddia. Iterative zero-shot llm prompting for knowledge graph
construction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.01128 , 2023.
[4] D. Edge, H. Trinh, N. Cheng, J. Bradley, A. Chao, A. Mody, S. Truitt,
D. Metropolitansky, R. O. Ness, and J. Larson. From local to global:
A graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.16130, 2024.
[5] H. Huang, C. Chen, C. He, Y . Li, J. Jiang, and W. Zhang. Can llms
be good graph judger for knowledge graph construction? arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.17388, 2024.
[6] P. Jiang, L. Cao, C. D. Xiao, P. Bhatia, J. Sun, and J. Han. Kg-fit:
Knowledge graph fine-tuning upon open-world knowledge. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:136220–136258, 2024.
[7] C. Kamble, R. Chavan, and V . Kamble. A review on amino acids.
research & reviews: A journal of drug design & discovery. 2021; 8 (3):
19–27p. A Review on Amino Acids Kamble et al. STM Journals , page 2,
2021.
[8] V . K. Kommineni, B. K ¨onig-Ries, and S. Samuel. From human experts
to machines: An llm supported approach to ontology and knowledge
graph construction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08345 , 2024.
[9] Y . Lairgi, L. Moncla, R. Cazabet, K. Benabdeslem, and P. Cl ´eau.
itext2kg: Incremental knowledge graphs construction using large lan-
guage models. In International Conference on Web Information Systems
Engineering, pages 214–229. Springer, 2024.
[10] M.-C. Lee, Q. Zhu, C. Mavromatis, Z. Han, S. Adeshina, V . N. Ioannidis,
H. Rangwala, and C. Faloutsos. Hybgrag: Hybrid retrieval-augmented
generation on textual and relational knowledge bases. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.16311, 2024.
[11] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V . Karpukhin, N. Goyal,
H. K ¨uttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rockt ¨aschel, et al. Retrieval-
augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in
neural information processing systems , 33:9459–9474, 2020.
[12] J. Z. Pan, S. Razniewski, J.-C. Kalo, S. Singhania, J. Chen, S. Dietze,
H. Jabeen, J. Omeliyanenko, W. Zhang, M. Lissandrini, et al. Large
language models and knowledge graphs: Opportunities and challenges.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06374 , 2023.
[13] M. Taboada, D. Martinez, M. Arideh, and R. Mosquera. Ontology
matching with large language models and prioritized depth-first search.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.11441 , 2025.
[14] R. Yang, B. Yang, A. Feng, S. Ouyang, M. Blum, T. She, Y . Jiang,
F. Lecue, J. Lu, and I. Li. Graphusion: a rag framework for knowl-
edge graph construction with a global perspective. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.17600, 2024.
[15] B. Zhang and H. Soh. Extract, define, canonicalize: An llm-
based framework for knowledge graph construction. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.03868, 2024.
[16] X. Zhu, Y . Xie, Y . Liu, Y . Li, and W. Hu. Knowledge graph-guided
retrieval augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.06864 , 2025.
