 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 19  
 
ISSN: 2349-9036   
Volume 8, Issue 3, 2021 
DOI (Journal): 10.37591/RRJoDDD 
STM JOURNALS
Research & Reviews: A Journal of 
Drug Design & Discovery 
 
http://pharmajournals.stmjournals.in/index.php/RRJoDDD/index 
Review RRJoDDD 
 
A Review on Amino Acids 
 
Chandani Kamble1,*, Rohankumar Chavan2, Vikas Kamble3 
 
Abstract 
Protein is made up of amino acids, which are the building blocks of the molecule. Only 20 amino 
acids are involved in protein synthesis, even though more than 300 amino acids have been identified. 
In nature, all twenty amino acids did not appear at the same time. Rather, some of them appeared 
first, while others were later incorporated into the genetic code. It is vital to include them in one's diet 
since a lack of them causes a reduction in protein synthesis, which leads to disease. In this article, 
amino acids, their properties, functions, and associated diseases have been elaborated. 
 
Keywords: Amino acids, protein, activity, diseases  
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Amino acids are a class of chemicals that contain 
two functional groups: Amino (NH 2) and Carboxyl (COOH) ( -COOH). The amino ( -NH2) group is 
basic, whereas the c arboxyl ( -COOH) group is acidic [1–6, 7]. Multiple processes associated with 
gene expression are regulated by amino acids, including the control of the function of proteins that 
mediate messenger RNA (mRNA) translation [7]. Acidic, basic, and neutral amino acids are the three 
types of amino acids. Because some amino acids are not produced by the body, they must be 
consumed through the food. These amino acids are referred to as essential amino acids. Some amino 
acids are generated in the body and do not require supplementation; these amino acids are referred to 
as non -essential amino acids. Some amino acids are generated in the body, but production is 
insufficient; these amino acids are referred to as semi-essential amino acids [8]. 
 
GENERAL STRUCTURE OF AMINO ACID 
Amino acid, any of a group of organic molecules that contains a basic amino group (−NH 2), an 
acidic carboxyl group (−COOH), and an organic R group (or side chain) that's unique to every amino 
acid. The term amino acid is brief for α -amino [alpha-amino] acid. Each molecule contains a central 
carbon (C) atom, called the α-carbon, to which both an amino and a carboxyl group are attached. The 
remaining two bonds of the α -carbon atom are generally satisfied by a hydrogen (H) atom and the R 
group [1–6, 9]. The key elements of an amino acid  
are carbon (C), hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), and 
nitrogen (N), although other elements are found 
within the side chains of certain amino acids [9]. 
About 500 present amino acids are known (though 
only 20 a ppear within the genetic code) and may 
be classified in some ways [ 10]. They will be 
classified in step with the core structural-functional 
groups' locations as alpha- (α-), beta- (β-), gamma- 
(γ-) or delta- (δ-) amino acids [9]. 
 
PROPERTIES OF AMINO ACIDS [4, 11, 12] 
Physical Properties of Amino Acids 
Solubility 
Most of the amino acids are usually soluble in 
water and insoluble in organic solvents. 
*Author for Correspondence 
Chandani Kamble 
E-mail: chandanikamble2597@gmail.com 
 
1Student, Department of Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance, 
Ashokrao Mane College of Pharmacy, Pethvadgaon , 
Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India  
2Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, Bharati 
Vidyapeeth College of Pharmacy, Kolhapur, Maharashtra, 
India  
3Student, Department of Pharmacy, Adarsh Pharmacy 
College, Vita, Maharashtra, India 
 
Received Date: September 17, 2021 
Accepted Date: October 21, 2021 
Published Date: November 10, 2021 
 
Citation: Chandani Kamble, Rohankumar Chavan, Vikas 
Kamble. A Review on Amino Acids . Research & Reviews: A 
Journal of Drug Design & Discovery. 2021; 8(3): 19–27p. 
 
 
A Review on Amino Acids                                                                                                                   Kamble et al. 
 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 20  
 
Melting Point 
Amino acids are generally melted at a higher temperature often above 2000 C.  
 
Taste 
Amino acids are also sweet (Glycine, Alanine and Valine), tasteless (Leucine) or Bitter (Arginine & 
Isoleucine). 
 
Optical Properties 
Optical Properties: All amino acids except glycine possess optical isomers because of the presence 
of asymmetric α-carbon atoms and show optical activity. 
 
Zwitterion and Isoelectric Point 
Zwitterion and Isoelectric point: The name zwitter is derived from the German word which implies 
hybrid. Zwitter ion (or) dipolar ion is a hybrid molecule containing positive & negatively ionic 
groups. The proton shifts from the carboxyl group to the amino group of the self -molecule at normal 
pH cellular levels. 
 
Titration Curve of Glycine 
Glycine is optically inactive, the simplest amino acid because which don't have an asymmetric carbon 
atom. Acid-Base titration involves the gradual addition (or) removal of protons. It’s three different 
stages when the Glycine undergoes acid-base titration. 
 
Chemical Properties of Amino acids 
Chemical reactions of amino acids due to carboxyl and amino groups.  
 
Due to Carboxyl group 
Decarboxylation 
The amino acids will undergo alpha Decarboxylation to make the corresponding amines. 
Histidine → Histamine + CO2 
Tyrosine → Tyramine + CO2 
Tryptophan → Tryptamine + CO2 
 
Reaction with Alkalies (Salt formation) 
Amino acids react with alkalies to make Salts. 
 
Reaction with Alcohols (Esterification) 
Amino acids are reacted with an alcohol to form, Ester.  
 
Reaction with Ammonia: 
The carboxyl group of dicarboxylic amino acids reacts with NH3 to form Amides. 
Aspartic acid + NH3→ Asparagine 
Glutamic acid + NH3→Glutamine 
 
Due to Amino group 
Reaction with Mineral acids (Salt formation) 
When the amino acids are treated with mineral acids (like HCl), it forms Acid Salts. 
 
Due to Amino and Carboxyl Group 
Ninhydrin reaction 
When Amino acids (or) Imino acid react with Ninhydrin molecule it gives Color. When it gives 
Purple color (Ruhemanns Complex) the Unknown sample is Amino acids (Which have primary amine 
NH2) or it gives Yellow color the Unknown sample is Imino acid (-NH-). 
 
Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery 
Volume 8, Issue 3 
ISSN: 2349-9036 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 21  
 
Amino acid + Ninhydrin → Keto acid + NH3 + CO2 + Hydrindantin 
Hydrindantin + NH3 + Ninhydrin → Ruhemanns purple 
 
L- AND D- AMINO ACIDS  
Only L-amino acids are manufactured in cells and incorporated into proteins. Some D -amino acids 
are found within the cell walls of bacteria, but not in bacterial proteins. Glycine, the only amino acid, 
has no enantiomers because it has two hydrogen atoms attached to the central carbon atom. Only if all 
four attachments are different can enantiomers occur [1, 2]. 
 
ESSENTIAL, SEMI-ESSENTIAL AND NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS  
Essential Amino Acids 
These are amino acids that are not produced by the body and must be obtained through food. 
They're also known as essential amino acids. Essential amino acid deficiency can induc e a variety of 
disorders, including neurological breakdown, suppression of normal mental development, and even 
death in young animals. Eight amino acids are very important for humans.  
 E.g. Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Threonine, Methionine, Phenylalanine,  Tryptophan, and 
Lysine.  
 An adequate amount of essential amino acids are required to maintain the proper nitrogen 
balance.  
 
Semi-Essential Amino Acids 
The body produces some of these amino acids, but not at a rate that is sufficient to meet the body's 
demands. 
e.g.: Arginine and Histidine.  
 
Non-Essential Amino Acids 
These are the amino acids that the human body produces. The carbon skeletons of lipids and 
carbohydrates metabolism, as well as the transformation of necessary amino acids, provide these 
amino acids. 12 non -essential amino acids in humans are particularly important to their health.  e.g.: 
Alanine, Arginine, Aspartic acid, Asparagine, Cystine, Cysteine, Glutamic acid, Glutamine, Glycine, 
Histidine, Proline, and Serine [1-5, 8].  
 
CLASSIFICATION  
Amino acids can be classified into 5 types [1-6, 13, 10] 
a. Classification based on the structure: 
b. Classification based on the position of-NH2: 
c. Classification based on the Nutritional requirement: 
d. Classification based on the Metabolic Fates 
e. Classification based on polarity: 
f. Classification Based On the Structure: 
 
A three -letter or one -letter symbol is allocated to each amino acid. The amino acids in protein 
structure are typically represented by these symbols. Proteins include 20 amino acids, which  are split 
into the following classes. 
 
Amino Acids with Aliphatic Side Chains 
Monoamine monocarboxylic acids are what they're called. The simplest amino acids are glycine, 
alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine, which make up this category. Because the last three amino 
acids (leucine, isoleucine, and valine) have branched aliphatic side chains, they are known as 
branched-chain amino acids. 
 
Hydroxyl Group-containing Amino Acids 
Serine, threonine, and tyrosine are amino acids with hydroxyl groups. Because  of its aromatic 
character, tyrosine is frequently classified as an aromatic amino acid. 
 
 
A Review on Amino Acids                                                                                                                   Kamble et al. 
 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 22  
 
Sulphur Containing Amino acids 
The two amino acids absorbed during protein synthesis are cysteine with a sulfohydryl group and 
methionine with a thioether group. 
 
Acidic Amino Acids and their Amides 
Aspartic acid and glutamic acids are dicarboxylic monoamino acids while asparagine and glutamine 
are their respective amide derivatives.  
 
Basic Amino Acids 
The three amino acids lysine, arginine (with guanidino group) a nd histidine (with imidazole ring) 
are dibasic monocarboxylic acids. They are highly basic in character. 
 
Aromatic Amino Acids 
Aromatic amino acids include phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan (which have an indole ring). 
Apart from them, histidine may also fall under this category. 
 
Imino Acids 
An unusual amino acid is a proline, which has a Pyrrolidine ring. Instead of the amino group  
(-NH2) found in other amino acids, it possesses an Imino group (=NH). As a result, proline is a -amino 
acid. 
 
Heterocyclic Amino Acids 
Histidine, Tryptophan, and Proline. 
 
Classification Based on the Position of -NH2 
Amino acids can be classified into three types: 
1. α-amino acid: The amino group attached to the next carbon of the carboxyl group is called α -
amino acid. All naturally occurring amino acids are in α-L-amino acids. 
2. Beta -amino acid : β-amino acid refers to the amino group attached to the third carbon 
(numbering from the Carboxyl group) of amino acid. For example, one of the end products of 
Pyrimidine catabolism is -alanine. 
3. γ-amino acid:  γ -amino acid refers to the amino group connected to the amino acids fourth 
carbon (numbering from the Carboxyl group). e.g. GABA (Gamma Amino Butyric Acid). 
 
Classification Based On the Nutritional Requirement 
Based on Nutritional requirements, amino acids can be divided into three types. 
1. Essential Amino acids (EAA) 
2. Non-Essential Amino acids (NEAA) 
3. Semi-Essential Amino acids (SEAA) 
 
Essential Amino acids (EAA)  
In the human body, some amino acids are not synthesized. It should be obtained from food. They 
are essential for the individual's appropriate development and maintenance [14].  
e.g.: MATT VIL PHLy (Or) 
PVT TIM HALL 
M=Methionine A=Arginine T=Threonine T=Tryptophan V=Valine I=Isoleucine L=Leucine 
P=Phenylalanine H=Histidine L=Lysine 
 
Non-Essential Amino acids (NEAA) 
To meet biological demands, the body can synthesis roughly 10 amino acids, thus they do not need 
to be eaten in the food.  e.g.: Glycine, Alanine, Serine, Cysteine, Aspargine, Aspartic acid, Glutamic 
acid, Glutamine, Tyrosine, and Proline. 
 
Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery 
Volume 8, Issue 3 
ISSN: 2349-9036 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 23  
 
Semi-Essential Amino acid: 
The amino acids histidine and arginine are semi -essential. They are required in the diet of growing 
children. However, they are not required for mature individuals. 
 
Classification Based On the Metabolic Fates 
Amino acids can be classified based on the metabolic fate into three groups: 
1. Purely ketogenic amino acids 
2. Ketogenic and Glucogenic amino acids 
3. Purely Glucogenic amino acids 
 
Purely ketogenic amino acids 
These amino acids can be used to make fat. Because it is transformed into ketone bodies, leucine 
and lysine are completely ketogenic. 
 
Ketogenic and Glucogenic amino acids: 
Part of the carbon skeleton of these amino acids will enter the ketogenic pathway d uring 
metabolism, while the other will enter the glucogenic pathway.  e.g.: Lysine, Isoleucine, 
Phenylalanine, Tyrosine & Tryptophan are partially ketogenic and partially glucogenic. 
 
Purely Glucogenic amino acids 
These amino acids can be used as a starting  point for the production of glucose or glycogen. 
Because they solely enter the glucogenic pathway, the remaining 14 amino acids are all fully 
glucogenic. 
 
Classification Based On Polarity: 
Amino acids can be classified based on their polarity into four groups: 
1. Non-polar amino acids 
2. Polar amino acids with no charge on 'R' group 
3. Polar amino acids with positive 'R' group 
4. Polar amino acids with negative 'R 'group 
 
Non-polar amino acids 
These amino acids are also known as hydrophobic amino acids (water -hating) they have no charge 
on the 'R' group. e.g.: Alanine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Valine, Methionine, Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, 
and Proline. 
 
Polar amino acids with no charge on 'R' group: 
As a result, the 'R' group of these amino acids is uncharged. They do, however, have groups like 
hydroxyl, sulfhydryl, and amide, and they contribute to protein structure hydrogen bonding. 
e.g.: Glycine, Serine, Threonine, Cysteine, Glutamine, Asparagine, and Tyrosine. 
 
Polar amino acids with positive 'R' group: 
e.g.: Lysine, Arginine, and Histidine. 
 
Polar amino acids with negative 'R ‘group: 
The aromatic dicarboxylic monoamino acids-e.g.: Aspartic acid and Glutamic acid. 
 
GENERAL SYNTHETIC METHODS FOR THE PREPARATION OF AMINO ACIDS  
Streckers Synthesis  
An aldehyde or ketone is treated with a solution of ammonium chloride and potassium cyanide in 
this procedure (ammonium cyanide). When the product is hydrolyzed, the corresponding amino acid 
is produced. The nucleophilic addition of ammonia to aldehyde starts the reaction. Alpha amino acids 
 
 
A Review on Amino Acids                                                                                                                   Kamble et al. 
 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 24  
 
are produced by removing water and then adding cyanide to aldimine.  The method is useful for 
preparing Glycine, Alanine, Serine, Valine, Methionine, Glutamic acid, Leuci ne, Isoleucine, 
Norleucine, and Phenylalanine [13, 15, 16]. 
 
Gabriel Phthalimide Synthesis 
This approach involves treating an alpha halogenated acid ester with potassium phthalimide to 
produce a substituted phthalimide, which when hydrolyzed yields phthalic  acid and amino acid   
[11, 17, 18].  
 
AMINO ACIDS 
Glycine 
Glycine is used to treat schizophrenia, stroke, sleep issues, BPH, metabolic syndrome, and a few 
uncommon inherited metabolic illnesses. 
 
Alanine 
Alanine is utilized to boost immunity and provide the brain and central nervous system more 
energy [15]. 
 
Valine 
L-valine is most commonly used in health supplements for its involvement in muscle synthesis and 
maintenance. Stress management, child growth, and immune system support are some of the other 
benefits of L-valine. 
 
Leucine 
It Increases the  physical performance or strength in the short term. Also increases  long-term 
physical performance or preventing muscle loss in a variety of conditions, including immobility. 
Lowering blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetes. 
 
Isoleucine 
It is required for children's optimum growth and the maintenance of nitrogen balance in adults. 
 
Norleucine 
Norleucine is an artificial amino acid that has been used to research protein structure and fu nction 
in the lab. It has a similar structure to METHIONINE. 
 
Phenylalanine 
Depression, Parkinson's illness, multiple sclerosis, pain, acupuncture anesthesia, and osteoarthritis 
are all treated with phenylalanine. 
 
Tyrosine 
Tyrosine is commonly utilizedin the production of thyroid hormone. Tyrosine is a supplement that 
helps with mental performance, alertness, and memory. 
 
Serine 
Serine is particularly significant for the brain and central nervous system to function correctly. 
 
Cysteine 
In medicine, cysteine is used to boost the efficiency of corticosteroid medications.  
 
Cystine 
L-Cystine can be used in the treatment of surgery and trauma. 
 
Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery 
Volume 8, Issue 3 
ISSN: 2349-9036 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 25  
 
Threonine 
Spinal spasticity, multiple sclerosis, familial spastic paraparesis, and amyotrophic late ral sclerosis 
are all conditions that are treated with threonine. 
 
Methionine 
Methionine is used to prevent and cure a variety of ailments, including depression, inflammation, 
liver illness, and muscle discomfort. 
 
Iodogorgic acid 
Diiodothyronine is a horm one. It's a type of medicine. Diiodothyronine is used to help people 
reduce weight, lower cholesterol, and develop muscle. 
 
Thyroxine 
Thyroid underactivity is treated with levothyroxine (hypothyroidism). It replaces or increases the 
amount of thyroid hormone generated by the thyroid gland. 
 
Tryptophan 
Tryptophan has been used to treat anxiety and depression in the past. It is used to treat migraines, 
headaches, and to boost the production of growth hormones. 
 
Proline 
One of the most important reasons to use L-proline supplements is to improve joint and skin health. 
It could also help with muscle development and injury healing. 
 
Hydroxyproline 
Hydroxyproline is required for the formation of collagen, the body's principal structural protein. 
 
Aspartic acid 
It's occasionally used to treat stress and exhaustion. It aids in the generation of energy from 
carbohydrates as well as the manufacturing of RNA and DNA. 
 
Asparagine 
It is necessary for brain development and function. 
 
Glutamic acid 
Glutamic acid serves as a source of energy for the brain. It improves brain clarity, mental alertness, 
and mood. As a result, it's utilizedto treat Parkinson's, Fatigue, and Schizophrenia. 
 
Beta-hydroxy glutamic acid 
It is used to treat acne, photoaging, dry skin, psoriasis, an d melasma, among other dermatological 
diseases. They've also been studied for fibromyalgia, dental scaling, and dry mouth, as well as the 
prevention and treatment of urinary tract stones. 
 
Glutamine 
It's used to keep blood sugar levels under control and consistent. 
 
Ornithine 
L-ornithine is primarily used in health supplements to support sports and performance. It's also 
utilized to help with liver function and wound healing. 
 
Arginine 
Because of its antiatherogenic, anti -ischemic, antiplatelet, and antithr ombotic effects, L-arginine is 
a non-essential amino acid that may play an important role in the treatment of cardiovascular disease. 
 
 
A Review on Amino Acids                                                                                                                   Kamble et al. 
 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 26  
 
Lysine 
Lysine appears to minimize cold sores when taken orally and when applied to the skin as a cream. 
 
Histidine 
Hemoglobin has a high percentage of histidine. As a result, it is used to treat anemia. It can reduce 
blood pressure. In baby feeding, histidine is critical. 
 
AMINO ACIDS ARE USEFUL AS DRUGS 
Certain non-standard Amino acids are used as drugs (Table 1) [1]: 
 D-Penicillamine: It is a metabolite of penicillin. It is employed in the chelation therapy of 
Wilson’s disease.  
 N-Acetylcysteine: It is used in cystic fibrosis, and chronic renal insufficiency, as it can 
function as an antioxidant. 
 Gabapentin: It is used as anticonvulsant. 
 
Table 1. Overview of amino acids. 
Amino Acids Chemical Name Three–letter 
abbreviation 
One–letter 
abbreviation 
Glycine Amino acetic acid Gly G 
Alanine Alpha Aminopropionic acid Ala A 
Valine alpha-Aminoisovaleric acid Val V 
Leucine alpha-Aminoisocaproic acid Leu L 
Isoleucine alpha-Amino-beta-methyl n-valeric acid Ile I 
Norleucine alpha-Amino n-caproic acid Nle - 
Phenylalanine alpha-Amino-beta-phenyl propionic acid Phe F 
Tyrosine alpha-Amino-beta-(p-hydroxyphenyl) propionic acid Tyr Y 
Serine alpha-Amino-beta-hydroxypropionic acid Ser S 
Cysteine alpha-Amino-beta-mercaptopropionic acid Csy C 
Threonine alpha-Amino-beta-hydroxy-n-butyric acid Thr T 
Methionine alpha-Amino-gamma-methyl-thio-n-butyric acid Met M 
Tryptophan alpha-Amino-beta-indolepropionic acid Trp W 
Proline Pyrrolidine-alpha-carboxylic acid Pro P 
Hydroxyproline Gamma-Hydroxypyrolidine alpha-carboxylic acid Hyp - 
Aspartic Acid alpha-Aminosuccinic acid Asp D 
Asparagine alpha-Aminosuccinamic acid Asn N 
Glutamic Acid alpha-Aminoglutaric acid Glu E 
Beta-Hydroxy Glutamic Acid Alpha-Amino-beta-hydroxyglutaric acid Glx Z 
Glutamine Alpha-Amino glutamic acid Gln Q 
Ornithine alpha-delta-Diamino-n-valeric acid Orn O 
Arginine alpha-Amino-delta-guanidino-n-valeric acid Arg R 
Lysine alpha-Diaminocaproic acid Lys K 
Histidine alpha-Amino-beta-imidazolepropionic acid His H 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
Amino acids are necessary for protein synthesis and have various functions in the body. It is 
necessary to take them in the diet because their deficiency results in decreased formation of protein or 
protein are not formed as a result protein deficiency may occur. It is concluded that amino acids play 
important role in our body. 
 
Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery 
Volume 8, Issue 3 
ISSN: 2349-9036 
 
© STM Journals 2021. All Rights Reserved 27  
 
Acknowledgments 
The authors acknowledge the family, friends and staff members for their support and 
encouragement in carrying work.  
 
REFERENCES 
1. Satyanarayana U, Chakrapani U, Biochemistry, 4th Edn. Books & Allied Pvt. Ltd; 2013, 44-52. 
2. Chatwal GR, Organic Chemistry of Natural Products, 1st Edn. Vol-I, Himalaya Publishing House, 
2005, 2.1-2.13. 
3. Agrawal OP, Organic Chemistry of Natural Products, 4 th Edn. Vol-I, GOEL Publishing House; 
2015, 122-137. 
4. Deb AC, Fundamentals of Biochemistry, 10th Edn. New Central Book Agency (P) Ltd; 2016, 86. 
5. Bahl A, Bahl AS, Advanced Organic Chemistry, 1 st Edn. S. Chand and Company Pvt. Ltd; 1977, 
854-868. 
6. Agarkar P, Kulkarni Y, Biochemistry, 4th Edn. Nirali Prakashan; 2015, 2.1-2.7.  
7. National Center for Biotechnology Informat ion (2021). PubChem Compound Summary for CID 
5950, Alanine. Retrieved August 12, 2021 from  https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ 
compound/Alanine. 
8. Donald AU, and Victor J H, A General Method for the Prepara tion of a-Labeled Amino Acids, J. 
Org. Chem, 1977; Vol. 42: 13p.  
9. KCAS. AMINO ACIDS. Available online at: https://kcasbio.com/compound-class/amino-acids/  
10. Biochem. Amino acids – Proteins (Basic Overview). https://biochemden.com/amino -acids-
protein-fundamental-molecules/  
11. Akram M, Asif HM , Uzair M. et.al. Amino acids: A review article, Journal of Medicinal Plant s 
Research, 9 September, 2011; 5(17): 3997-4000p, Available online at 
http://www.academicjournals.org/JMPR ISSN 1996-0875 ©2011 Academic Journals.  
12. H.D. Belitz, H. D., Grosch, W., Schieberle, P., Amino Acids, Peptides, Proteins, December 2008 
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-69934-7_2 
13. Finar IL, Organic Chemistry: Stereochemistry & the Chemistry of Natural Product, 5th Edn. Vol-I, 
Darling Kindersley (India) Pvt. Ltd; 2013, 652-669.  
14. Scot R, Leonard S, New functions for amino acids: effects on gen e transcription and translation,  
Am. J. Clin. Nut, 2006; 83(2): 500-507p. 
15. Théo Magrino, Fabio Pietrucci and A. Marco Saitta, Step by Step Strecker Amino Acid Synthesis 
from Ab Initio Prebiotic Chemistry, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2021; 12(10): 2630–2637  
16. Wu G. Amino acids: biochemistry and nutrition, Boca Raton (FL): CRC Press; 2013.  
17. Hellwinkel D,  Systematic Nomenclature of Organic Chemistry, Springer -Verlag, Berlin und 
Heidelberg, Germany, 2001; 209-210p.  
18. Wikipedia. Amino acid. 23 October 2021. Available online at: 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amino_acid 
 
 
 
