. Acid-Base titration involves the gradual addition (or) removal of protons. It’s three different stages when the Glycine undergoes acid-base titration. Chemical Properties of Amino acids Chemical reactions of amino acids due to carboxyl and amino groups. Due to Carboxyl group Decarboxylation The amino acids will undergo alpha Decarboxylation to make the corresponding amines. Histidine → Histamine + CO2 Tyrosine → Tyramine + CO2 Tryptophan → Tryptamine + CO2 Reaction with Alkalies (Salt formation) Amino acids react with alkalies to make Salts. Reaction with Alcohols (Esterification) Amino acids are reacted with an alcohol to form, Ester. Reaction with Ammonia: The carboxyl group of dicarboxylic amino acids reacts with NH3 to form Amides. Aspartic acid + NH3→ Asparagine Glutamic acid + NH3→Glutamine Due to Amino group Reaction with Mineral acids (Salt formation) When the amino acids are treated with mineral acids (like HCl), it forms Acid Salts. Due to Amino and Carboxyl Group Ninhydrin reaction When Amino acids (or) Imino acid react with Ninhydrin molecule it gives Color. When it gives Purple color (Ruhemanns Complex) the Unknown sample is Amino acids (Which have primary amine NH2) or it gives Yellow color the Unknown sample is Imino acid (-NH-). Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery Amino acid + Ninhydrin → Keto acid + NH3 + CO2 + Hydrindantin Hydrindantin + NH3 + Ninhydrin → Ruhemanns purple L- AND D- AMINO ACIDS Only L-amino acids are manufactured in cells and incorporated into proteins. Some D -amino acids are found within the cell walls of bacteria, but not in bacterial proteins. Glycine, the only amino acid, has no enantiomers because it has two hydrogen atoms attached to the central carbon atom. Only if all four attachments are different can enantiomers occur [1, 2]. ESSENTIAL, SEMI-ESSENTIAL AND NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS Essential Amino Acids These are amino acids that are not produced by the body and must be obtained through food. They're also known as essential amino acids. Essential amino acid deficiency can induc e a variety of disorders, including neurological breakdown, suppression of normal mental development, and even death in young animals. Eight amino acids are very important for humans.  E.g. Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Threonine, Methionine, Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, and Lysine.  An adequate amount of essential amino acids are required to maintain the proper nitrogen balance