. They are required in the diet of growing children. However, they are not required for mature individuals. Classification Based On the Metabolic Fates Amino acids can be classified based on the metabolic fate into three groups: 1. Purely ketogenic amino acids 2. Ketogenic and Glucogenic amino acids 3. Purely Glucogenic amino acids Purely ketogenic amino acids These amino acids can be used to make fat. Because it is transformed into ketone bodies, leucine and lysine are completely ketogenic. Ketogenic and Glucogenic amino acids: Part of the carbon skeleton of these amino acids will enter the ketogenic pathway d uring metabolism, while the other will enter the glucogenic pathway. e.g.: Lysine, Isoleucine, Phenylalanine, Tyrosine & Tryptophan are partially ketogenic and partially glucogenic. Purely Glucogenic amino acids These amino acids can be used as a starting point for the production of glucose or glycogen. Because they solely enter the glucogenic pathway, the remaining 14 amino acids are all fully glucogenic. Classification Based On Polarity: Amino acids can be classified based on their polarity into four groups: 1. Non-polar amino acids 2. Polar amino acids with no charge on 'R' group 3. Polar amino acids with positive 'R' group 4. Polar amino acids with negative 'R 'group Non-polar amino acids These amino acids are also known as hydrophobic amino acids (water -hating) they have no charge on the 'R' group. e.g.: Alanine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Valine, Methionine, Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, and Proline. Polar amino acids with no charge on 'R' group: As a result, the 'R' group of these amino acids is uncharged. They do, however, have groups like hydroxyl, sulfhydryl, and amide, and they contribute to protein structure hydrogen bonding. e.g.: Glycine, Serine, Threonine, Cysteine, Glutamine, Asparagine, and Tyrosine. Polar amino acids with positive 'R' group: e.g.: Lysine, Arginine, and Histidine. Polar amino acids with negative 'R ‘group: The aromatic dicarboxylic monoamino acids-e.g.: Aspartic acid and Glutamic acid. GENERAL SYNTHETIC METHODS FOR THE PREPARATION OF AMINO ACIDS Streckers Synthesis An aldehyde or ketone is treated with a solution of ammonium chloride and potassium cyanide in this procedure (ammonium cyanide). When the product is hydrolyzed, the corresponding amino acid is produced. The nucleophilic addition of ammonia to aldehyde starts the reaction. Alpha amino acids A Review on Amino Acids Kamble et al