. Example offshore wind: Established offshore wind markets (Denmark, Germany, UK, Netherlands) build on a ‘one-stop shop’ model to speed up the permitting process in which government agencies (and not the developers) are responsible for site selection in either a zonal or site-specific approach, pre-site investigations, licensing, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), grid connection and decommissioning. Sustainability certification schemes No information Social S-LCA standard or best practice No information Health I. Selected examples on research on noise related impacts Perception and impact of wind energy related noise on humans: (IEA Wind TCP - Task 39 (2022) summarises as follows: Psycho-medical studies have reported that, at high enough levels of low frequency noise (LFN), like for any other sound at high levels, humans can be affected in the form of annoyance, stress, irritation, unease, fatigue, headache, possible nausea and 63 disturbed sleep. However, it must be remembered that the LFN emissions from a wind turbine, when heard at residential locations at a few hundred meters, are comparable with, or often below, the natural ambient levels. Although LFN can be measured in the immediate vicinity of a wind turbine and sometimes far away as well, there is no evidence that wind turbine noise can cause direct physical effects on people living nearby, considering the low levels involved at distances equal or larger than the typical minimum legal distances between wind turbines and dwellings. Typically, LFN and infrasound from wind turbines falls well below the level of audibility. A resident’s attitude to wind turbines is an important factor in their response to them and annoyance certainly plays a role here (IEA Wind TCP Task 39, 2022). Possible Perceptual and Physiological Effects of Wind Turbine Noise: Carlile et al. (2018) analyse perceptual effects of laboratory exposure to low- frequency sound (LF) and infrasound (IS) stressing: A number of laboratory studies have directly exposed human listeners to IS and LF either directly recorded from wind turbines or synthesised to reproduce key elements of these recordings. A range of exposure symptoms have been reported but no systematic or significant effects of IS and LF have been demonstrated