. A range of exposure symptoms have been reported but no systematic or significant effects of IS and LF have been demonstrated. […] Although not an exhaustive survey of this literature, this review indicates that there are questions relating to the measurement and propagation of LF and IS and its encoding by the central nervous system that are relevant to the possible perceptual and physiological effects of wind turbine noise but for which we do not have a good scientific understanding. There is much contention and opinion in these areas that, from a scientific perspective, are not well founded in the data, simply because there are little data available that effectively address these issues. This justifies a clear call to action for resources and support to promote high-quality scientific research in these areas (Carlile et al., 2018). Infrasound and low frequency noise from wind turbines: exposure and health effects: Bolin et al. 2011 analyses: Three cross-sectional questionnaire studies show that annoyance from wind turbine noise is related to the immission level, but several explanations other than low frequency noise are probable. A statistically significant association between noise levels and self-reported sleep disturbance was found in two of the three studies. It has been suggested that LFN from wind turbines causes other, and more serious, health problems, but empirical support for these claims is lacking (Bolin et al., 2011). II. Exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF): There is public concern on possible health hazards with respect to exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) generated by wind turbines. EMF exposure measurements performed by Alexias et al. (2020) indicate that EMF levels are similar or even lower compared to those in urban areas and well below international safety limits (Alexias et al., 2020). III. Shadow flicker Wind rotors can periodically cast shadows onto surrounding buildings during sunny intervals which can impact residents and their perception of wind energy. In order to prevent this, OEMs use shadow flicker protection systems integrated into the control system of a wind turbine (a light detection sensor system, such as the Vestas Shadow Detection System (VSDS)) taking into account the position of the sun and other meteorological data (DNV, 2022; Vestas, 2022 c)