. Other wind energy technologies generating electricity are at a lower technology readiness level, such as airborne wind energy systems and vertical axis wind turbines. Airborne wind energy systems (AWES) convert wind energy into electricity using autonomous kites or unmanned aircrafts, linked to the ground by one or more tethers. As compared to conventional wind energy concepts, AWES offer the possibility to harness stronger and steadier winds by flying at higher altitudes. At this stage both fundamental academic research an d long-term investments are nee ded towards commercialisation ( Watson, 2019). Vertical axis wind turbines (VAWTs) use a vertical shaft around which the rotor turns. Due to their low speed and high torque they are less efficient than conventional horizontal axis wind turbines (HAWT ), but the technology could gain momentum via hybridisation with floating devices (wave -wind energy) or in small scale wind applications. Currently the integration of a VAWT within a floating platform is still at a low TRL. Table 2 presents the current TRL of wind energy technologies. Floating wind covers a large range of TRLs, with spar-buoy and semi-submersible designs already achieving TRL 8-9, while the concrete barge design currently stands at TRL 7-8, and tension-leg platform, at TRL 6. Airborne wind energy is at TRL 3-5. Table 2. Current TRL of wind energy technologies. TRL (Technology Readiness Level) Sub-Technology 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Onshore wind Bottom-fixed offshore wind Floating offshore wind Airborne wind energy Source: JRC analysis, 2024. 10 2.2 Installed energy capacity and generation 2.2.1 Global deployment Total wind (onshore and offshore) In 2023, the wind global cumulative capacity hit the 1 TW threshold, with over 1 020 GW of installed capacity (Figure 1). That year, the deployment of wind power saw significant growth, with onshore capacity reaching an all-time high of over 100 GW and offshore wind breaking the 10 GW mark for the second time (the first being in 2021). Globally, 117 GW of new capacity was installed, with 106 GW onshore and 11 GW offshore. Figure 1. Global annual capacity additions (left) and cumulative installed capacity (right) of wind energy. Note: The scale on the right is 10 times larger than the scale on the left. Source: JRC based on GWEC, 2024. Onshore Looking specifically at onshore capacity additions, China took the lead with 69.2 GW, followed by the EU with 13.3 GW, and the United States with 6.4 GW (Figure 2)