., 2024). AN 3.1.2 POTEnCIA CETO 2024 scenario The technology projections provided by the POTEnCIA model are obtained under a Climate Neutrality Scenario aligned with the broad GHG reduction objectives of the European Green Deal. As such, this scenario reduces net EU GHG emissions by 55% by 2030 and 90% by 2040, both compared to 1990, and reaches net zero EU emissions by 2050. To model suitably the uptake of different technologies under this decarbonisation trajectory, the scenario includes a representation at EU level of general climate and energy policies such as emissions pricing under the Emissions Trading System, as well as key policy instruments that have a crucial impact on the uptake of specific technologies. For instance, the 2030 energy consumption and renewable energy shares reflect the targets of the EU's Renewable Energy Directive and of the Energy Efficiency Directive. Similarly, the adoption of alternative powertrains and fuels in transport is consistent with the updated CO2 emission standards in road transport and with the targets of the ReFuelEU Aviation and FuelEU Maritime regulations. A more detailed description of the POTEnCIA CETO 202 4 scenario will be available in the forthcoming report (Neuwahl et al., 2024). AN 3.2 POLES-JRC model AN 3.2.1 Model overview POLES-JRC (Prospective Outlook for the Long -term Energy System) is a global energy model well suited to evaluate the evolution of energy demand and supply in the main world economies with a representation of international energy markets. It is a simulation model that follows a recursive dynamic partial equilibrium method. POLES-JRC is hosted at the JRC and was designed to assess global and national climate and energy policies. POLES-JRC covers the entire energy system, from primary supply (fossil fuels, r enewables) to transformation (power, biofuels, hydrogen and hydrogen -derived fuels such as synfuels) and final sectoral demand (industry, buildings, transport). International markets and prices of energy fuels are calculated endogenously. Its high level of regional detail (66 countries & regions covering the world with full energy balances, including all detailed OECD and G20 countries) and sectoral description allows assessing a wide range of energy and climate policies in all regions within a consistent g lobal frame: access to energy resources, taxation policy, energy efficiency, technological preferences, etc