. Capacity planning considers the existing power mix, the expected evolution of electricity demand as well as the techno -economic characeristics of the power technologies. Hydrogen POLES-JRC takes into account several hydrogen production routes: (i) low temperature electrolysers using power from dedicated solar. wind and nuclear plants as well as from the grid, (ii) steam reforming of natural gas (with and without CCS), (iii) gasification of coal and biomass (with and without CCS), (iv) pyrolysis of gas and biomass as well as (v) high temperature electrolysis using nuclear power. 68 Hydrogen is used as fuel in all sectors including industry, transport, power generation and as well as feedstock for the production of synfuels (gaseous and liquid synfuels) and ammonia. Moroever, hydrogen trade is modelled, considering hydrogen transport with various means (pipeline, ship, truck) and forms (pressurised, liquid, converted into ammonia). Bioenergy POLES-JRC receives information on land use and agriculture through a soft -coupling with the GLOBIOM -G4M model (IIASA, 2024). This approach allows to model bioenergy demand and supply of biomass adequately by taking into account biomass-for-energy potential, production cost and reactivity to carbon pricing. Biomass is used for power generation, hydrogen production and for the production of 1 st and 2nd generation of liquid biofuels. Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS) POLES-JRC uses CCUS technologies in: • Power generation: advanced coal using CCS, coal and biomass gasification with CCS, and gas combined cycle with CCS. • Hydrogen production: Steam reforming with CCS, coal and biomass gasification with CCS, and gas and biomass pyrolysis. • Direct air capture (DAC) where the CO2 is either stored or used for the production of synfuels (gaseous or liquid). • Steel and cement production in the industrial sector. • Second generation biofuels production. The deployment of CCS technologies considers region-specific geological storage potentials. Endogenous technology learning The POLES-JRC model was enhanced to capture effects of learning of clean energy technologies. To capture these effects, a one-factor learning-by-doing (LBD) approach was applied to technologies and technology sub- components, aiming at endogenising the evolution of technology costs