. It assesses market shares of EU and global market leaders in wind, and examines the trade balance between the EU and its main competitors. Additionally, the chapter investigates supply risks and critical dependencies along the supply chain, looking at the various raw and processed materials used in wind power plants. 1.2 Methodology and data sources The report has been written following the CETO methodology that addresses three principal aspects: a) Technology maturity status, development and trends b) Value chain analysis c) Global markets and EU positioning. Annex 1 provides a summary of the indicators for each aspect, together with the main data sources. 9 2. Technology status and development trends 2.1 Technology readiness level (TRL) Onshore and bottom-fixed offshore wind turbines are currently at a commercial readi ness stage. These wind turbines feature horizontal axis, three -bladed designs with standardized steel or concrete tow ers and upwind rotors (including three blades, yaw systems, pitch regulation, and drive train systems). Offshore wind turbines rely on various bottom-fixed foundation types, including monopiles, jackets, tripods, tripiles, gravity bases, and suction buckets. Floating offshore wind technology is rapidly advancing, with the potential to strengthen Europe ’s position in renewable energy deployment. This technology enables wind farms to be installed in deeper waters, extending the reach of offshore wind projects beyond the limitations of bottom -fixed turbines. Floating offshore wind projects can thus benefit EU countries with deep waters (50-1 000 meters in depth), potentially opening up new markets such as the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea, and the Black Sea. The main distinctive criterion in the various floating designs is the substructure used to provide the buoyancy , and thus stability to the plant (typologies include Spar -buoy, Semi -Submersible, Tension -leg platform (TLP), Barge and Multi-Platforms substructures). As the technology is still on its way to full commercialisation, no design has yet prevailed over the others; however, the spar-buoy design and the semi-submersible design have already been deployed in pre-commercial projects in the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. Other wind energy technologies generating electricity are at a lower technology readiness level, such as airborne wind energy systems and vertical axis wind turbines