. 64 Public acceptance Scherhaufer et al (2017) find that local opposition to/public acceptance of wind energy in Austria is caused by a complex set of individual and collective preferences ([…] with landscape-related impacts remaining significant) rooted in institutional and socio-political arrangements (Scherhaufer et al., 2017). Drivers with respect to wind energy repowering projects: Kitzing et al. (2020) demonstrate that for wind pioneer in Denmark, only 67% of the capacity removed in repowering projects was related to the physical space needed for a new turbine. Other factors that drive repowering include regulation (for example, noise-related, 8–17%), development principles (for example, aesthetics, 7–20%) and political bargaining (4–13%) (Kitzing et al., 2020). Frantál (2015) finds that disruption to local landscape was detected as the main factor behind opposition against repowering wind turbines in Czechia (Frantál, 2015). Ziegler et al. (2018) finds that public acceptance for lifetime extension of existing wind farms is perceived to have less local opposition than repowering with larger rotors and hub heights (investigating these factors in Germany, Spain, Denmark, and the UK) (Ziegler et al., 2018). Education opportunities and needs See chapter 3.5 good practices in revitalizing and repurposing workforce towards the wind energy sector Employment and conditions For employment data see chapter 3.5 Contribution to GDP See chapter 3.2 Rural development impact No information Industrial transition impact See chapter 3.4 for impacts and potential bottlenecks in the transition of the wind energy industry Affordable energy access (SDG7) No information Safety and (cyber)security Offshore wind: affecting navigational safety and air defence capabilities Cyber security: see for example cyber-attack on remote control of Enercon turbines in 02/2022 Energy security No information Food security No information Responsible material sourcing No material was identified in relation to EU REGULATION (EU) 2017/821 requirements Source: JRC, 2022. 65 Annex 3 Energy system models and scenarios: POTEnCIA and POLES-JRC AN 3.1 POTEnCIA model AN 3.1.1 Model overview The Policy Oriented Tool for Energy and Climate Change Impact Assessment (POTEnCIA) is an energy system simulation model designed to compare alternative pathways for the EU energy system, covering energy supply and all energy demand sectors (industry, building s, transport, and agriculture)