. • Trade barriers have the potential to distort trade and cause unintended effects on investment across value chains, hindering the competitiveness of EU companies. 8 1. Introduction 1.1 Scope and context The purpose of this report is to offer an up -to-date overview of the current state of wind energy technology, covering onshore wind, offshore wind (including both bottom-fixed and floating offshore), and, when available, findings on wind technologies with lower technology readiness levels, e.g. Airborne Wind Energy Systems (AWES) and Vertical Axis Wind Turbines (VAWT). The report examines the progress in R D&I within EU-funded research, specifically focusing on technology advancements until the end of 2023, in alignment with the SET-Plan targets. Additionally, the report analyses the EU ’s global competitiveness within the win d energy value chain and identifies potential bottlenecks and supply risks as the industry works towards achieving the goals set by the European Green Deal. Chapter 2 examines the current status and future development of key technology indicators in the wind energy sector. This chapter is organized as follows: chapter 2.1 introduces the current technology readiness level (TRL) of the main technologies used in the wind energy industry; chapter 2.2 highlights key indicators on deployment and electricity gener ation, a nd develops modelling proje ctions at EU and global levels; c hapter 2.3 explores present and future cost developments in wind energy , including estimates on Levelised Cost of Energy (LCoE); chapters 2.4 to 2.7 outline competitiveness indicators such as public and private R&D funding, patenting trends, and scientific publications; and c hapter 2.8 analyses the impact and trends of EU -supported research and innovation. Chapter 3 focuses on the wind energy value chain, cov ering macroeconomic indicators like turnover, Gross Value Added (GVA), employment, and production. This chapter also assesses the role of EU companies in the wind sector, and maps environmental and socioeconomic sustainability indicators . Chapter 4 provides an overview of the EU’s global position and competitiveness in the wind energy industry. It assesses market shares of EU and global market leaders in wind, and examines the trade balance between the EU and its main competitors