. When the product is hydrolyzed, the corresponding amino acid is produced. The nucleophilic addition of ammonia to aldehyde starts the reaction. Alpha amino acids A Review on Amino Acids Kamble et al. are produced by removing water and then adding cyanide to aldimine. The method is useful for preparing Glycine, Alanine, Serine, Valine, Methionine, Glutamic acid, Leuci ne, Isoleucine, Norleucine, and Phenylalanine [13, 15, 16]. Gabriel Phthalimide Synthesis This approach involves treating an alpha halogenated acid ester with potassium phthalimide to produce a substituted phthalimide, which when hydrolyzed yields phthalic acid and amino acid [11, 17, 18]. AMINO ACIDS Glycine Glycine is used to treat schizophrenia, stroke, sleep issues, BPH, metabolic syndrome, and a few uncommon inherited metabolic illnesses. Alanine Alanine is utilized to boost immunity and provide the brain and central nervous system more energy [15]. Valine L-valine is most commonly used in health supplements for its involvement in muscle synthesis and maintenance. Stress management, child growth, and immune system support are some of the other benefits of L-valine. Leucine It Increases the physical performance or strength in the short term. Also increases long-term physical performance or preventing muscle loss in a variety of conditions, including immobility. Lowering blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetes. Isoleucine It is required for children's optimum growth and the maintenance of nitrogen balance in adults. Norleucine Norleucine is an artificial amino acid that has been used to research protein structure and fu nction in the lab. It has a similar structure to METHIONINE. Phenylalanine Depression, Parkinson's illness, multiple sclerosis, pain, acupuncture anesthesia, and osteoarthritis are all treated with phenylalanine. Tyrosine Tyrosine is commonly utilizedin the production of thyroid hormone. Tyrosine is a supplement that helps with mental performance, alertness, and memory. Serine Serine is particularly significant for the brain and central nervous system to function correctly. Cysteine In medicine, cysteine is used to boost the efficiency of corticosteroid medications. Cystine L-Cystine can be used in the treatment of surgery and trauma. Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery Threonine Spinal spasticity, multiple sclerosis, familial spastic paraparesis, and amyotrophic late ral sclerosis are all conditions that are treated with threonine