. The Global CETO 2°C scenario 2024 and its specific POLESJRC model configuration is described in detail in the forthcoming report " Impacts of enhanced learning for clean energy technologies on global energy system scenario" (Schmitz et al., 2024). The Global CETO 2°C scenario 2024 is designed to limit global temperature increase to 2°C at the end of the century. It is driven by a single global carbon price for all regions that reduces emissions sufficiently so as to limit global warming to 2°C. This scenario is therefore a stylised representation of a pathway to the temperature targets. This scenario does not consider financial transfers between countries to implement mitigation measures. This is a simplified representation of an ideal case where strong international co operation results in concerted effort to reduce emissions globally; it is not meant to replicate the result of announced targets and pledges, which differ greatly in ambition across countries. As a starting point, for all regions, it considers already legislated energy and climate policies (as of June 2023), but climate policy pledges and targets formulated in Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and Long - Term Strategies (LTSs) are not explicitly taken into account. In particular, the EU Fit for 55 and RePowerEU packages are included in the policy setup for the EU. Announced emissions targets for 2040 and 2050 for the EU are not considered. The Global CETO 2°C scenario 2024 differs fundamentally from the Global CETO 2°C scenario 2023 used in the CETO technology reports in 2023 in various aspects 1: • The version of the POLES-JRC model used for the Global CETO 2°C scenario has been further enhanced and modified to capture effects of endogenous learning of clean energy technologies and, furthermore, several technology representations were further detailed, e.g. DAC (composition of renewable technologies, batteries and DAC unit), fuel conversion technologies (for hydrogen transport) and batteries in transport. • The techno-economic parameters have been thoroughly revised and updated taking into account the expertise of the authors of the CETO technology reports. As a result, major scenario differences occur in the Global CETO 2°C scenario 2024 regarding DAC, syn fuels, CCS power technologies, wind power and ocean power. AN 3.3 Distinctions for the CETO 2024 scenarios - POLES-JRC vs