. To capture these effects, a one-factor learning-by-doing (LBD) approach was applied to technologies and technology sub- components, aiming at endogenising the evolution of technology costs. POLES-JRC considers historical statistics and assumptions on the evolution of cost and capacities of energy technologies until the most recent year available (this report: 2022/2023). Based on the year and a capacities threshold, the model switches from the default time series to the endogeneous modelling with the one -factor LBD approach. Within the LBD, the learning rate represents the percentage cha nge of the cost of energy technology based on a doubling of the capacity of the energy technology. This generic approach is applied on a component level to capture spillover effects as well. For instance, a gasifier unit is used as component for several p ower generating technologies (e.g. integrated gasification combined cycle, IGCC) as well as for several hydrogen production technologies (e.g. gasification of coal and biomass). Therefore, the component-based LBD approach allows to model spillover effects not only across technologies, but also across sectors. Also, it allows to estimate costs for emerging technologies for which historical experience does not yet exist. Moreover, for each component a floor cost is specified which marks the minimum for the c omponent's investment cost and serves as limitation for the cost reduction by endogenous learning. Cost reductions by learning in POLES-JRC slow down when the investment cost approaches the floor cost. The described method above applies not only for the o vernight investment cost of energy technologies, but as well for operation and maintenance (OM) costs, which also decrease as technologies improve, and for efficiencies. In the model, OM costs diminish synchronously to the decrease of total investment cost of the technology. The efficiency of renewables is implicitly taken into account in the investment cost learning and the considered renewable potentials. For most technologies the efficiencies are endogenously modelled. 69 AN 3.2.3 Global CETO 2°C scenario 2024 The global scenario data presented in the CETO technology reports 2024 refers to a 2°C scenario modelled by the POLES-JRC model in a modified and enhanced version to address the specific issues relevant for the CETO project