. Developed in -house by the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre (JRC) to support EU policy analysis, POTEnCIA allows for the joint evaluation of technology -focused policies, combined with policies addressing the decisi on-making of energy users. To this end: • By simulating decision-making under imperfect foresight at a high level of techno-economic detail, POTEnCIA realistically captures the adoption and operation of new energy technologies under different policy regimes; • By combining yearly time steps for demand-side planning and investment with hourly resolution for the power sector, POTEnCIA provides high temporal detail to suitably assess rapid structural changes in the EU’s energy system; • By tracking yearly capital stock vintages for energy supply and demand, POTEnCIA accurately represents the age and performance of installed energy equipment, and enables the assessment of path dependencies, retrofitting or retirement strategies, and stranded asset risks. The core modelling approach of POTEnCIA ( Figure 1; detailed in Mantzos et al., 2017, 2019) focuses on the economically-driven operation of energy markets and corresponding supply -demand interactions, based on a recursive dynamic partial equilibrium method. A s such, for each sector of energy supply and demand, this approach assumes a representative agent seeking to maximize its benefit or minimize its cost under constraints such as available technologies and fuels, behavioural preferences, and climate policies . Figure 52. The POTEnCIA model at a glance. Source: JRC adapted from Mantzos et al., 2019. 66 This core modelling approach is implemented individually for each EU Member State to capture differences in macroeconomic and energy system structures, technology assumptions, and resource constraints. The national model implementation is supported by spatially -explicit analyses to realistically define renewable energy potentials and infrastructure costs for hydrogen and CO 2 transport. Typical model output is provided in annual time steps over a horizon of 2000 -2070; historical data (2000 -2021) are calibrated to Eurostat and other official EU statistics to provide accurate initial conditions, using an updated version of the JRC In tegrated Database of the European Energy System (JRC-IDEES; Rózsai et al., 2024). AN 3.1