. POLES -JRC operates on a yearly basis up to 2100 and is updated yearly with recent information. The POLES-JRC model applied for the CETO project i s specifically enhanced and modified to capture learning effects of clean energy technologies. POLES-JRC results are published within the series of yearly publications "Global Climate and Energy Outlooks” – GECO. The GECO reports along with detailed count ry energy and GHG balances and an on -line visualisation interface can be found at: https://joint-research-centre.ec.europa.eu/scientific-activities-z/geco_en A detailed documentation of the POLES-JRC model is provided in (Després et al., 2018). 67 Figure 53. Schematic representation of the POLES-JRC model architecture. Source: POLES-JRC model . AN 3.2.2 POLES-JRC model description Power system The power system considers all relevant power generating technologies including fossil, nuclear and renewable power technologies. Each technology is modelled based on its current capacities and techno -economic characteristics. The evolution of cost and efficiencies are modelled through technology learning. With regard to the power technologies covered by CETO, the model includes solar power (utility -scale and residential PV, concentrated solar power), wind power (on -shore and off-shore), hydropower and ocean power. Moreover, clean thermal power technologies are taken into account with steam turbines fuelled by biomass, biomass gasification, CCS power technologies and geothermal power. Furthermore, electricity storage technologies such as pumped hydropower storage and batteries are also included. For solar and wind power, variable generation is considered by representative days with hourly profiles. For all renewables, regional resource potentials are considered. Electricity demand Electricity demand is calculated for all sectors taking into account hourly fluctuations through the use of representative days. Clean energy technologies using electricity consist of heat pumps (heating and cooling), batteries and fuel cells in transport, and electrolysers. Power system operation and planning Power system operation allocates generation by technology to each hour of representative days, ensuring that supplying and storage technologies meet overall demand, including grid imports and exports. Capacity planning considers the existing power mix, the expected evolution of electricity demand as well as the techno -economic characeristics of the power technologies