. Funds granted refer to the start year of the project. Source: JRC based on CORDIS, 2024. In 2023, four new European projects focus on recycling and circularity solutions. Three projects tackle the issue of waste generated from wind turbine blades at the end of their life cycle. The largest of these projects, Blades2Build (EUR 12.4 million), aims to develop recycling solutions for wind turbine blades. REFRESH (EUR 11.5 million) seeks to create a circular, smart system for recycling at least 90% of glass fiber-reinforced composites from wind turbines. EoLO -HUBs (EUR 10 million) will develop and implement efficient circular economies for wind turbine blades. Lastly, the GR4FITE3 project (EUR 960 thousand) aims to establish a sustainable end -to- end supply chain for lithium -ion batteries. This is specifically targeted towards anode active materials used in lithium-ion batteries designed for electric vehicles and power sources like solar and wind farms. 32 With WHEEL (EUR 16.7 million), BLOW (EUR 15.5 million) and ShareWind (EUR 212 thousand), 3 new projects started in floating energy in 2023. The objective of the WHEEL project is to fully demon strate and bring to a precommercial Technology Readiness Level (TRL) a novel floating wind technology excellently suited for deep water locations, effective industrialization strategies, breakthrough cost reduction and minimized carbon footprint. Development and demonstration needed to reach the pursued TRL will be achieved through the design, installation, certification and testing of a fully operative 6 MW Pilot unit. BLOW will develop a 5 MW demonstrator in the Black Sea, paving the way to industrial mas s production of floating offshore wind farms. ShareWind will study the use of shared anchors to reduce construction costs of floating wind turbines. 7 new projects will focus on grid integration, including WILLOW ( EUR 5.8 million) which will develop a data - driven smart curtailment solution; and InterOPERA (EUR 12.7 million) which will improve the grid -forming capabilities of offshore and onshore converters, by transforming future high-voltage direct current systems into mutually compatible and interoperable systems