. The EU also leads in private R&D investment, closely followed by China, with a cumulative investment of approximately 40% of total private R&D funding from 2010 to 2020. 7 Table 1. CETO SWOT analysis for the competitiveness of the EU wind energy sector. Source: JRC analysis, 2024. Strengths • Global leader in wind technological development, with European OEMs at the forefront of R&I. • EU pioneer in floating offshore wind development, with first pre-commercial wind farms installed in EU waters. • Strong manufacturing supply chain, covering 88% of the EU’s onshore market for wind turbines (final assembly step). • European companies have a substantial market presence within the EU, as well as a notable share in the global market, contributing to a positive trade balance. Weaknesses • Administrative barriers, particularly the slow permitting process for new installations. • Rare earth elements used in the permanent magnets are identified as critical raw materials with a high supply risk. • Emphasis required on circularity by design, environmental impact, and human capital agenda. • Need for increased focus on maritime spatial planning (MSP) and coexistence among sectors. Opportunities • Annual deployment rates need to increase to reach ambitious 2030 targets. • Floating offshore wind enables Member States (MSs) with steeper shorelines to harvest offshore wind and exploit existing potentials. • Implementing recycling and circularity practices can promote innovation, alleviate supply chain pressures, and enhance public acceptance of wind technology, benefiting the entire value chain. • Offshore wind R&I priorities should focus on system integration, efficient transmission & interconnection, and O&M. Threats • The EU could face supply chain bottlenecks if production needs to scale up rapidly to meet ambitious climate targets. • Potential bottlenecks and supply risks for critical raw materials (e.g. rare earth elements) and processed materials (e.g. NdFeB magnets, balsa wood). • Risk of increased LCoE (reflecting commodity price inflation, increased transportation costs, and/or supply chain risk). • Trade barriers have the potential to distort trade and cause unintended effects on investment across value chains, hindering the competitiveness of EU companies. 8 1. Introduction 1