, 2021 DOI (Journal): 10.37591/RRJoDDD STM JOURNALS Research & Reviews: A Journal of Drug Design & Discovery http://pharmajournals.stmjournals.in/index.php/RRJoDDD/index Review RRJoDDD A Review on Amino Acids Chandani Kamble1,*, Rohankumar Chavan2, Vikas Kamble3 Abstract Protein is made up of amino acids, which are the building blocks of the molecule. Only 20 amino acids are involved in protein synthesis, even though more than 300 amino acids have been identified. In nature, all twenty amino acids did not appear at the same time. Rather, some of them appeared first, while others were later incorporated into the genetic code. It is vital to include them in one's diet since a lack of them causes a reduction in protein synthesis, which leads to disease. In this article, amino acids, their properties, functions, and associated diseases have been elaborated. Keywords: Amino acids, protein, activity, diseases INTRODUCTION Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins. Amino acids are a class of chemicals that contain two functional groups: Amino (NH 2) and Carboxyl (COOH) ( -COOH). The amino ( -NH2) group is basic, whereas the c arboxyl ( -COOH) group is acidic [1–6, 7]. Multiple processes associated with gene expression are regulated by amino acids, including the control of the function of proteins that mediate messenger RNA (mRNA) translation [7]. Acidic, basic, and neutral amino acids are the three types of amino acids. Because some amino acids are not produced by the body, they must be consumed through the food. These amino acids are referred to as essential amino acids. Some amino acids are generated in the body and do not require supplementation; these amino acids are referred to as non -essential amino acids. Some amino acids are generated in the body, but production is insufficient; these amino acids are referred to as semi-essential amino acids [8]. GENERAL STRUCTURE OF AMINO ACID Amino acid, any of a group of organic molecules that contains a basic amino group (−NH 2), an acidic carboxyl group (−COOH), and an organic R group (or side chain) that's unique to every amino acid. The term amino acid is brief for α -amino [alpha-amino] acid. Each molecule contains a central carbon (C) atom, called the α-carbon, to which both an amino and a carboxyl group are attached. The remaining two bonds of the α -carbon atom are generally satisfied by a hydrogen (H) atom and the R group [1–6, 9]