.  E.g. Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Threonine, Methionine, Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, and Lysine.  An adequate amount of essential amino acids are required to maintain the proper nitrogen balance. Semi-Essential Amino Acids The body produces some of these amino acids, but not at a rate that is sufficient to meet the body's demands. e.g.: Arginine and Histidine. Non-Essential Amino Acids These are the amino acids that the human body produces. The carbon skeletons of lipids and carbohydrates metabolism, as well as the transformation of necessary amino acids, provide these amino acids. 12 non -essential amino acids in humans are particularly important to their health. e.g.: Alanine, Arginine, Aspartic acid, Asparagine, Cystine, Cysteine, Glutamic acid, Glutamine, Glycine, Histidine, Proline, and Serine [1-5, 8]. CLASSIFICATION Amino acids can be classified into 5 types [1-6, 13, 10] a. Classification based on the structure: b. Classification based on the position of-NH2: c. Classification based on the Nutritional requirement: d. Classification based on the Metabolic Fates e. Classification based on polarity: f. Classification Based On the Structure: A three -letter or one -letter symbol is allocated to each amino acid. The amino acids in protein structure are typically represented by these symbols. Proteins include 20 amino acids, which are split into the following classes. Amino Acids with Aliphatic Side Chains Monoamine monocarboxylic acids are what they're called. The simplest amino acids are glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine, which make up this category. Because the last three amino acids (leucine, isoleucine, and valine) have branched aliphatic side chains, they are known as branched-chain amino acids. Hydroxyl Group-containing Amino Acids Serine, threonine, and tyrosine are amino acids with hydroxyl groups. Because of its aromatic character, tyrosine is frequently classified as an aromatic amino acid. A Review on Amino Acids Kamble et al. Sulphur Containing Amino acids The two amino acids absorbed during protein synthesis are cysteine with a sulfohydryl group and methionine with a thioether group. Acidic Amino Acids and their Amides Aspartic acid and glutamic acids are dicarboxylic monoamino acids while asparagine and glutamine are their respective amide derivatives. Basic Amino Acids The three amino acids lysine, arginine (with guanidino group) a nd histidine (with imidazole ring) are dibasic monocarboxylic acids